list out 10 Basic linux command.
1.	Ls ..lists all directories and files    
2.	  man  ..gives manual for any command
3.	  mkdir  … creates directory
4.	   Rm… removes files or directories
5.	  cd  ..changes directory
6.	 Pwd  …print working directory
7.	   touch  …creates an empty file
8.	   Cat …opens file 
9.	Vi … creates and opens file and can edit by opening file
10.	Sed …can edit file without opening file    



what kind of task u have done on Linux? 

All the commands which are explained in class , its flags and execution with different examples.....man, hostname ,env, echo, export,tar,scp, cd, mkdir, ls, who, whoami , W, rm, cat, touch, ifconfig, vi,sed, find, awk, add user, addgrp, deluser, chmod, chown,ping, telnet, ps, top, more,hardlink, pipe, semicoln,du, df,dh,cp, mv, free, lsb_release, Uname,history, wc ,softlink,  



how to collect the threads when cpu utilization is very high? how do you slove the issue? 
Collecting threads    
 top -b -H -p PID
Solution	
   Kill or restart processes, Update system apps and drivers, Reinstall or downgrade apps

	


list out 10 new linux command not heard till now with one liner details.
1.	W .. shows the information about the users currently on the machine and their process(shows who is logged on and what they are doing)
2.	less - Linux command to display paged outputs in the terminal
3.	diff - Find the difference between two files
4.	cmp - Allows you to check if two files are identical
5.	comm - Combines the functionality of diff and cmp
6.	sort - Linux command to sort the content of a file while outputting
7.	service - Linux command to start and stop services
8.	mount - Mount file systems in Linux
9.	ufw - Firewall command
10.	alias - Create custom shortcuts for your regularly used commands




what is adhoc commands?

Ad hoc commands are commands which can be run individually to perform quick functions.(allows to create wireless network without central access point) 
	These ad-hoc commands are not used for configuration management and deployment, because these commands are of one time usage.
ansible-playbook is used for configuration management and deployment




Cmd to find Particular process running

Ps -aef  | grep (PID)



Write a adhoc command to copy a file from local to remote machine!? 

The copy module –  to copy files from ansible control machine local to the remote machine,

 host/host group ansible remoteserver1 -m copy -a "src=~/Downloads/index.html dest=/var/www/html owner=apache group=apache mode=0644"




If the pid of Java application is missing what can be the reason how do u troubleshoot

If pid of Java is killed it won't work to find the pid 
             Ps -aef |grep Java




Difference between cp and scp

cp stands for copy file, used to copy files locally from one directory to another.
scp stands for secure copy, which is used to copy files over a network.(Basically copy file from one computer to another) It requires authentication like host-address and user name. It uses ssh as underneath protocol.




If i want to check which port is used by witch process!? How will u get it!? 

if you want to see from the OS layer which process is using which port netstat could be enough but you might need to go as hard as using lsof , strace or even setup auditd to log the port usages, to check the port traffic you’d use tcpdump or other similar tools


hot to Remove empty lines from file?

$ sed '/^$/d' filename


I have a file with 3 fields (EmpName, EmpNumber, EmpMailid) 
	1. Just print the EmpMailid as output 

Awk {print $NF} filename   or    Awk {print $3F} filename
 
	2. print mailid of particular employee

awk '/ EmpName | EmpMailid /' filename


	
how you do the connection between the servers

ssh -username@server IP



how to generate the key on a linux michine

ssh -keygen
 